Mobile Devices
==============

* After 1.24.x, access to the "light" interface changed to http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/zm/index.php?skin=mobile ; You may find that you have a directory named "skins" under ZoneMinder base dir, so you may use one of the existent skins as a base to adapt to your needs; 

Type this in your mobile browser: http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/zm/index.php?format=xhtml (deprecated)

ZoneMinder has always had a minimal WML (Wireless Markup Language) capability to allow it to function on mobile phones and similar devices. However as of 1.20.0 this is now deprecated and has been replaced with a new XHTML – Mobile Profile mode as well as the default HTML4. XHTML-MP is a small, and limited, version of XHTML intended for mobile devices and is based on XHTML Basic. It does not contain scripting or other dynamic elements and essentially is a subset of HTML as most people know it.

The ZoneMinder XHTML-MP interface allows you to log into your installation via your phone or mobile devices and perform a limited number of tasks. These include viewing recent events, and monitoring live streams. However unlike the full interfaces these elements are presented as still images requiring manual refreshing. For now the XHTML-MP interface is presented as a prototype interface; rather than one offering full capabilities. As such, please feel free to make comments or offer suggestions via the forums on http://www.zoneminder.com.

As well as XHTML-MP, ideally I’d like to be able to offer a WML2.0 interface. WML2.0 is a blending of WML1.3, which is traditional WAP, and XHTML. As such it offers the scripting that WML has traditionally included plus the better control of mark-up that is the realm of XHTML. Unfortunately so far I’m unaware of any devices that support WML2.0 even if they say they are WAP2 compliant; certainly I’ve never had a phone that does. If you find out that a particular phone does support this then please let me know (or better still send me the phone!).

If you wish to use the XHTML-MP interface to ZoneMinder there is no extra configuration required to enable it per se. However ZoneMinder needs to be able to figure out what kind of content to deliver to particular browsers, so you have two choices. You can edit zm.php and include a definition that corresponds to your phone, describing a small number of basic capabilities, you will see a couple of examples already there, or you can use the comprehensive open source WURFL package available from http://wurfl.sourceforge.net/. You will need to download both the WURFL php files and the wurfl.xml file itself. WURFL is a resource containing information on the capabilities of a huge number of mobile phones, devices and browsers. Thus once it has matched your phone it can determine various capabilities it may possess. This means that ZoneMinder itself only has to deal with these capabilities and not the individual phone types. If you prefer you can also add the format=xHTML url parameter when you load ZoneMinder to force the xHTML format and skip the automatic determination altoghether.

To use WURFL you should install the php files in the same directory as ZoneMinder and then create a ‘wurfl’ sub-directory and ensure it is readable and writeable (or preferably owned by) your web server user. You should put the wurfl.xml file in there. One other thing you may need to change, as the xml file is quite large, is the ‘memory_limit’ setting in php.ini as the default setting of 8Mb may be too small. Once you’ve done this you should find that your phone or device is recognised and if it can support XHTML-MP it will receive that interface. If your phone is very new, or you are using an old version of the XML file you might find that it is not present however. The WURFL library uses a caching strategy to avoid reloading the whole XML file each time so check if a sensible looking cache file has been created in the ‘wurfl’ sub-directory also check the wurfl.log in the same place.

The WURFL is a third party application and as such I am unable to offer support directly for it. If you feel your device is missing or incorrectly represented please contact the authors via their own channels. If on the other hand you have any comments on ZoneMinder on your device specifically please let me know and I would be pleased to hear about it.

As support for cookies in mobile devices is patchy at best, the groups feature is not fully implemented in the XHTML-MP views. Instead if there is a group called ‘Mobile’ already defined then that group will always be effective, if not then all monitors available to the logged in user will be visible,
